- [Instructor] The collections class contains
many static methods that help us work with the collection.
In this lesson, we're going to explore a few of them
that allow us to find values within a list.
So let's start out with the classic binary search.
When we use a binary search method
in the collections framework,
we need our collection to be sorted.
So you'll notice that I have a list of rooms
and then I've used our rate comparator to sort them.
So let's go ahead and on the collections class,
we can invoke the binary search method.
And you'll notice that there's two of them.
The first, we'll use the natural sort order
of the collection in order to perform the search.
The other one will accept a comparator.
Now because we're not using the natural sort order of a room
for our collection, we'll need to go with
this form of the method.
So the first argument's the collection
that you would like to search.
The second argument is the object
that you would like to search for.
In this case, I'm just going to look for Cambridge.
And then the final argument here is your comparator.
So I can pass in our rate comparator.
Now this method is going to return an integer
that denotes the index where that object is found.
So I'm going to go ahead and assign that
to a variable called result,
and then I'm going to just print it to the console.
Okay, so let's go ahead and we can perform our search.
So you'll notice that the binary search
indicated that Cambridge is in index one.
And if we take a look at our list,
you'll notice that in index one we find Cambridge.
So that was a successful binary search.
Let's see what happens when a search isn't successful.
So I'm going to just copy one of our rooms
and then I'm going to paste it in at line 20.
And I'm going to build a new room
that isn't in our collection.
I'll call it New London and then I'll just change the name
of the variable.
Okay, now I'm going to search for New London
inside of our collection with the binary search.
Let's see what happens here.
So you'll notice that the result is negative.
That indicates that the object was not found
within the collection.
And then it's providing an integer of three.
So this is known as the insertion point.
It indicates the position in the list
where New London would be inserted.
And that would be here in position three,
where we currently find Oxford.
So let's go ahead and we can insert Oxford
into our rooms list.
To do that, I'm going to use the overloaded add method
that accepts a position.
And then I'm going to get abstract value of the result.
And I'll also need to increment it by one.
You'll notice when I do this,
we can then insert New London into its proper position
within the collection.
Let's close out the lesson by looking at two more methods
on the collections class.
These methods are going to help us find the min
and the max values within our rooms list.
So to do that, we just invoke the methods
on the collections class.
The first one is min and we pass in our collection
and then we pass in a comparator.
So I'll pass in the room comparator,
and then I'm just going to get the name of the room
once we found it.
So this is going to get the min value from the collection
as determined by our rate comparator.
And then to get the max, it's very similar.
I'll just change our console output here.
And then we'll change our method call to get the max.
Okay, let's go ahead.
We'll execute the code and see what we got.
Okay, so you'll notice that our min room
was identified as Piccadilly and it does have
the lowest rate of the group.
So that's correct according to our rate comparator.
And then Victoria was identified as the max,
and that's a little bit more difficult
because we do have these three rooms
that have a rate of $225.
But you'll remember that our room comparators
secondary sort key was the name.
And because Victoria is deemed to be greater
by that sort key,
it appears as the greatest element or the max element
in our collection.
So that wraps up our review of the collections class
and other utilities that we can use
to work with collections in the framework.